We are already quite familiar now with redux redux saga the whole redux ecosystem and managing our local
state leveraging is top level store however in this section we are going to take a look at the context
API that was recently updated by the REACT team.
Now the context API has actually been around for quite some time now.
In fact the redux library actually leverages the context api in order to do what it does and you might
have read or heard about the context API a lot recently.
So in these following lessons we are going to take a look at what the context API does how to use it
but more importantly when to use it for our application now.
In order for us to understand the context API we have to revisit some of what it is that redux was solving.
To also understand what the context API is solving.
So what a high level.
If you remember from our prop drilling diagram originally before we introduced redux and we were only
leveraging components state inside of our classes or let's say we were using component state by leveraging
our new used state hook if we wanted to pass say something like the current user that we fetched and
authenticated on our app component we would have to pass it down through all of these components if
say our card component was the one that needed it.
Now of course this is bad as a practice because these components in between don't need to actually access
this current user other than for passing it in as a prop and then passing it down until it reaches this
nested component.
So this is bad and that's why we created that new separate redux store at the top level right at the
app level that any component was able to hook into and then pull off pieces of state while the context
API does pretty much the exact same thing because it's trying to solve the exact same problem the context
API essentially is a way for us to store different states and modify those states inside of some separate
context object which we would then be able to hook into from components at any level which eliminates
our prop drilling issue.
Now this is going to be pretty much the same kind of solution that redux provides for us as well.
The only difference is that here we're not bringing in that redux library or the reactor redux library
for that matter we're only leveraging react in order to solve this prop drilling problem because the
context API comes with react and I'll show you how we'll do it but in order for us to do this and check
out the code for this we have to go back a couple commits to a different version of our application
before we included all of the sagas and all of this features that we've recently integrated in.
Now if you go to this length that I provide you in your resources you will see that I created a new
project that rolls us back a little bit to where we were before we introduced sagas and some of the
other features that we have.
So what I want you to do is I want you to clone this into your root folder or whatever folder you want
to hold.
This new project so you're gonna clone that copy that link that you just got.
Go back to your terminal kill your process hitting control see this will kill the old server that you
had and then Cedi up one folder or you can go to any folder that you want and just run get clone and
then paste in that link that we have so once we've cloned into it just see into react context lesson
and make sure to run yarn so that you install all of the dependencies now open up the project so all
our application is if you remember is when we first started moving everything into redux so we are still
leveraging our app us to handle linking and connecting our user off from our fire store.
Authentication so we're still using that on auth state changed here because if you remember we switched
over to the promised style when we started using sagas so pretty much all we're doing is we're just
firing that set current user reducer action and that's pretty much all we're doing.
As far as our current user is concerned is that we are leveraging the base action reducer update system
that we had before we handled any of our asynchronous events with thanks or sagas.
So we're pretty much just rolled back to a version of our application before we started doing those
advanced topics.
Now we also are not fetching our collections from our fire store.
We have them locally inside of our redux folder itself.
If you remember right our shop data is here inside of this file which is also perfectly fine.
This is all good for the demonstration and we'll do some asynchronous stuff with the context API.
Anyways so what's your project has installed all of the necessary dependencies so you've just run ya
just run your own start and we will start up our server and start leveraging the context API in the
next lesson we will actually figure out how to write context API so I'll see you in that next lesson.